# MSc Thesis: On the dimensionality of global functional networks
This repository contains the code for the analysis developed for my thesis project. Initially, a novel experimental paradigm was developed to study the neural representation of the development of emotional associations (code is stored under 'Stimulus_delivery'), but has been discontinued due to null-results from the pilot-study. (Extra participants will be tested soon to definitely conclude whether the paradigm works or not.)

As an alternative thesis project, I reanalyzed the data from the Decoding Emotions project (see for more info the respective repository), on which I worked for my research internship. The goal of this thesis was to investigate on what level representational information is encoded in whole-brain (global) functional networks. A written report can be found in the 'TEX_thesis' subdirectory. Code for the analysis can be found in the 'Analysis_scripts' directory. Note that I rewrote all the MATLAB-code I used for the Decoding Emotions project into an analysis-pipeline in Python, which mainly depends on the Numpy and Scikit-learn packages. 

## Abstract:
The brain is organized anatomically and functionally at different scales, from ensembles of neurons within cortical columns to interacting regions in networks spanning the entire brain. Multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) is an
increasingly popular method to investigate how information is represented neurally, but little is known how information is represented at these different levels of organization in the brain. Often, MVPA studies restrict their analyses to local patterns of voxels, thus assuming a localized, voxel-level representation of information. While this local organization is neurobiologically plausible for representations of low-level psychological concepts such as visual stimulus-features, studies on high-level psychological concepts such as emotion, motivation, and decision-making suggest that these are encoded at a larger spatial scale within globally distributed functional networks. The current study aims at investigating the spatial scale and dimensionality of highlevel representations, using existing data from a study investigating the representation of self-focused emotion experience. We hypothesized that we could accurately model these high-level neural representations as a multivariate set of clusters, instead of local voxel patterns, using a linear classifier. Results demonstrated that high-level representations could indeed be accurately modeled at cluster-level. However, additional exploratory analyses showed that, in addition to cluster-level networks, the investigated high-level representations were also encoded locally as voxel-level patterns in multiple spatiallycontiguous regions in the brain, suggesting a multiscale organization of information. We believe that our study shows that high-level representations should be analyzed at different spatial scales in the brain, as it may give insight into different sources of information.
